---
layout: post
title: "Sharpening the Saw, Go and Vim"
author: Alex Young
tags:
- go
- tutorials
---

###Sharpening the Saw

[On sharpening the saw](http://vimcasts.org/blog/2012/08/on-sharpening-the-saw/) by Drew Neil is an article about the path to Vim mastery:

> When you know Vim's capabilities, you’ll start to find yourself reaching for things that aren't there. You'll notice common patterns of usage, and realize that they could be streamlined if only Vim had an operator or motion for the job.

Vim has a tough learning curve, so it's sometimes hard to understand what to learn next.  Drew's post includes some concrete examples documenting his path to Vim mastery, so it works well as a motivational piece to encourage beginners to start learning more.

> Vim has sharp edges. If you're not careful, you might cut yourself. But if you know how to wield it, you can exploit those sharp edges to slice through text effortlessly.

###Go and Vim

I recently mentioned [Gocode](http://usevim.com/2012/07/30/script-roundup/), which is a sophisticated daemon for Go-specific completion.  In [Go and Vim](http://shawnps.net/code/go/go-and-vim/), Shawn Smith discusses the Vim tools that are distributed alongside Go.  This includes code formatting and package management tools.

Go is [pretty strict about formatting](http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html?h=formatting#formatting) -- rather than allowing the community to evolve several popular styles a code formatting program is included called `gofmt`.  Therefore it's good to see that the Go team also includes tools to make this work with popular editors like Vim.
