---
layout: post
title: "FileType-Specific Settings"
author: "Alex Young"
tags:
- filetype
- autocmd
---

Vim can run commands when reading or writing files, and this is known as an `autocommand`.  Automatic commands can be combined with `FileType` and `set` to apply settings that only apply to a certain type of file.  This takes the form `au FileType type set commands`.  For example, to ensure Ruby files wrap at 80 characters and use a tabstop of two the following line could be added to your `~/.vimrc`:

{% highlight viml %}
au FileType ruby set tw=80 ts=2
{% endhighlight %}

The `{options}` argument to `:set` can be repeated, and here I've supplied two arguments.  This pattern is really great for those of us who work with multiple languages with different styles.

I like this example taken from Ryan Tomayko's [dotfiles/.vimrc](https://github.com/rtomayko/dotfiles/blob/rtomayko/.vimrc):

{% highlight viml %}
au FileType gitcommit set tw=68 spell
{% endhighlight %}

This will cause Vim to wrap at 68 characters and turn on spell checking, but only for Git commit messages.

The `FileType` argument is an "autocommand event".  There are lots of others.  In Ryan's `~/.vimrc`, we also see `BufRead` and `BufNewFile`:

{% highlight viml %}
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.svg        set ft=svg
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.haml       set ft=haml
{% endhighlight %}

These are used to set the correct `FileType` when starting to edit a new file.

Vim's documentation includes a warning about the power of automatic commands.  To read more, check out the following:

* `:help autocommand` -- a gentle introduction, with the warning message
* `:help :au` -- the command itself
* `:help :set`
* `:help autocmd-events-abc`
