---
layout: post
title: "Vim 101: Let"
author: "Alex Young"
tags: 
- vim101
- variables
---

Over the last few weeks on [Vim 101](http://usevim.com/tags.html#vim101) I've been writing about `:set` and `:setlocal`.  These commands are used to display and change Vim's settings.  There are other times when you'll need to store values outside of built-in settings.  In particular, plugin documentation may state that a variable can be set to control its behaviour.

For example, the amazingly popular [NERD tree](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1658) plugin uses several variables that you can change or query:

* `NERDTreeShowHidden`: Show or hide hidden files
* `NERDTreeShowLineNumbers`: Show line numbers in the NERD tree window
* `NERDTreeMinimalUI`: Hide the _Bookmarks_ label

These are just a few examples, NERD tree actually has a lot more!  To change one of these variables, use the `:let` command:

{% highlight text %}
:let NERDTreeMinimalUI=1
{% endhighlight %}

If you wanted to keep this setting in your `vimrc`, then you'd use the same command without the colon.

Plugins often set a flag once they've been loaded, so they can avoid loading again.  By using `:let loaded_nerd_tree=1` you can actually prevent NERD tree from loading when Vim starts up.

The `:let` command also supports other data types, including lists and sequences.  NERD tree has lists of files that it should ignore.  You could add this to your `.vimrc` to make it ignore `.DS_Store` and `.vim` files:

{% highlight text %}
let NERDTreeIgnore=['\.DS_Store$', '\.vim$']
{% endhighlight %}

Variables can also be set locally or globally.  By adding `g:` to a variable name it will refer to the global value.  If I have the NERD tree plugin installed and I type `:let g:loaded_nerd_tree`, it'll display `#1` to indicate that the plugin has been loaded.  I've also got `g:Powerline_loaded` and dozens more.

To list all of the variables, type `:let`.  The results will be paged.
