---
layout: post
title: "Vim 101: Filtering for Fun and Profit"
author: "Alex Young"
tags:
- vim101
- filters
---

Vim supports _filter commands_, where a filter is a program that accepts and changes text using standard IO.  I'm going to give some Unix-based examples, so the actual binaries I refer to may not be available in Windows, but the principles are the same.

Shell commands can be executed and displayed by typing `:!{command}`.  The results can be _read_ into the current buffer by using the `:r[ead]` command.  For example, `:r !ls` will append the output from the `ls` Unix command into the current buffer.   Typing `:!!` will repeat the last `:!{cmd}`.  For more information, type `:help :!` when in Vim.

Rather than just executing Unix commands, filters allow text to be sent and received.  The general form of the `!` command is `!{motion}{filter}`.  While in Normal mode, typing `!4jsort` will cause Vim to sort the next four lines.  Let's break this down:

* `!` - Filter
* `4j` - Motion, 4 lines down (expands to `:.,.+4!`)
* `sort` - The Unix `sort` command

To apply filters to selections, type `v` to enter Visual mode then press `!` when a selection has been made.

Unlocking the power of filters is dependent on your knowledge of Unix text processing.  A good command to know about is `tr`, which is used to translate characters.  For example, typing `!}tr "[:lower:]" "[:upper:]"` will _tr_anslate the current paragraph to uppercase.
If I had a set of lines that I wanted to ensure was unique, then I'd type `!5juniq`:

* `!` - Filter
* `5j` - Motion, 5 lines down
* `uniq` - The Unix `uniq` command

There's been a recent resurgence of interest in using Vim and Unix as an IDE, and mastering filter commands is one way you can achieve this promised text editing nirvana.
