---
layout: post
title: "Vim 101: Managing Options"
author: "Alex Young"
tags: 
- vim101
- options
---

We've all been there: bursting with creativity, ready to roll, but held back by a configuration option.  So we search: over to Stack Overflow, the Vim Tips wiki, and various forums and mailing lists.  Then the answer is discovered: `:set this-or-that`, and it's added to our vimrc and forgotten about.

Like most things in Vim, you can get by this way for a certain amount of time, but there comes a point when you need to properly understand how to use this innocuous command.  Everything I'm going to discuss here can be found in `:help :set`, so if you forget something in the future that's the easiest way to find an answer.

Options in Vim can be one of three types: boolean, number, or string.  They work slightly differently, so it's a good idea to pay attention to the type of a given option.  To check the type of an option, type `:help 'option'`, and you'll see it displayed in the documentation.  In general, options change Vim's behaviour.  It's important to distinguish between options and _variables_, which are set with `:let`.  If you're using a plugin, it's likely to be configured with `:let` rather than `:set`.

The `:set` command can be abbreviated to `:se`.  Just typing `:se` will show all of the options that differ from their default values.  This is a good way top track down problems if your settings and plugins are becoming overwhelming, or perhaps to extract your most essential settings.  Typing `:se all` will display all options.  To query a specific value, use `:se {option}?`.  Although typing `:se {option}` will show the value for strings or numbers, it'll toggle the value for a boolean option so it's safer to use the question mark.

To actually set an option, type `:se {option}={value}`.  For example, `:se softtabstop=2`.  When typing `:se {option}` with a boolean option, it'll switch it on -- so `:se number` will turn line numbers on.  To turn numbers off, type `:se nonumber`.  Prefixing boolean options with `no` will turn them off.  The value can also be toggled with `:se inv{option}` -- `inv` stands for 'invert'.

To reset all options back to their defaults, type `:se all&`.  This is a pretty extreme measure and should not be used lightly!  Specific options can be set to their default by typing `:se {option}&`.
