---
layout: post
title: "Vim 101: Version Information"
author: "Alex Young"
tags: 
- vim101
---

Reading this article will teach you the following:

* How to understand Vim's version information
* How to check if a given build of Vim meets the requirements of a Vim script
* How this relates to Vim's build process

Vim can be built in many different ways, so it's sometimes necessary to check how a particular build was compiled.  Most of us install Vim through our operating system's package manager, so querying version information can be useful.  To do this, type `:version` (alias: `:ve`), or run `vim --version`.  A lot of text will be displayed, and I'll break it down below.

Let's say you've discovered a new Vim script that you want to try out, and the documentation says it requires Python support.  Typing `:ve` in Vim will show either `+python` or `-python`.  In my case I see `+python`, which means I can run plugins that use Python.  There are also a lot of Ruby plugins out there, and my build shows `+ruby`.

Typing `:help :ve` displays a list of all the options that Vim can be built with.  This is based on configure flags and `src/feature.h`.  If you download or check out Vim's source, typing `./configure --help` will display all of the available options.  Searching the output of that command for Python prints the following:

{% highlight text %}
--enable-pythoninterp=OPTS   Include Python interpreter. default=no OPTS=no/yes/dynamic
--enable-python3interp=OPTS   Include Python3 interpreter. default=no OPTS=no/yes/dynamic
--with-python-config-dir=PATH  Python's config directory
--with-python3-config-dir=PATH  Python's config directory
{% endhighlight %}

Translation: in order to build Vim with Python scripting, it has to be enabled, and a path to Python's `config.h` file must be supplied.  Other languages can be included in a similar way.

Looking further into these options shows that the language can be "dynamic".  When dynamic is set, `\dyn` will be displayed alongside the language by `:version`.  This means the library or scripting language will be included when it can be dynamically loaded.  In Windows, Python can be set to dynamic, which will cause Vim to search for a Python DLL -- this makes it easy to distribute binaries of Vim that can optionally support libraries.

An additional peculiarity of the build process is the "features" flag:

{% highlight text %}
--with-features=TYPE    tiny, small, normal, big or huge (default: normal)
{% endhighlight %}

Looking at both my Debian and Mac machines, I see "Huge version without GUI" under `:ve`.  This is a way of grouping features so it's easier to distribute Vim tailored to a given audience: huge is great for most desktops, and tiny may be better suited to a machine with fewer resources.  Selecting huge will include all features from big, normal, small, and tiny.

When writing Vim scripts, the version can be checked with `if version > 600`, where `600` is a given version number.  Ex commands executed between the `if` and `endif` will be ignored, allowing backwards compatibility.  Going back to the Python example, a plugin could check for Python support with `if has('python')`.

The next time you see a plugin that states `+python` or `+float` is required, you should now know what this means!
