---
layout: post
title: "Vim 101: Marks"
author: "Alex Young"
tags:
- vim101
- movement
- motions
---

Part of the joy of using Vim is the ability to quickly move around a file, and even between files.  Marks serve as a kind of bookmarking system, allowing positions within files to be saved and jumped to.

Some marks are persisted between sessions because Vim saves them in your `.viminfo` file, so chances are you already have some marks stored.  To see a list, open Vim and type `:marks`.  Notice how the list looks a little bit like [registers](http://usevim.com/2012/04/13/registers/) -- the naming scheme for marks is similar.

###Setting Marks and Jumping

Typing `'0` will cause Vim to jump to the `0` mark, which is a "special mark" that represents the last file edited when Vim was exited.

To set a mark, type `ma` -- this will store the current position in the `a` mark.  Move somewhere else within the file then type `'a` to go back.  These lowercase marks are remembered as long as the file is in the buffer list.  Conversely, the uppercase marks `'A` to `'Z` include the file name, so they can be used to efficiently jump between points in different files.

There are a lot more special marks, but one that's worth knowing about is `''`.  Typing this will move to the position before the last jump, or where the last mark as created.  I find myself using this when I skip somewhere far away in a long file and have forgot to set a mark from where I left off.

To read more about these motion commands, take a look at `:help mark-motions`.

###Combined with :cd

Let's say I've come back to my computer after a long weekend.  I want to continue working where I left off on Friday.  Rather than navigating to my project's directory and opening Vim, I could simply open Vim, type `'0`, and the last file I edited would appear.

That's great, but later I may need to set the current directory to be my project's directory.  The `:cd` command can be used to change directory, or `:cd %:p:h` can be used to change directory to the currently open file.  Now [ctrlp.vim](http://kien.github.com/ctrlp.vim/) will do what I expect!
