---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to Vim Sessions"
author: "Alex Young"
tags: 
- sessions
- options
---

Vim supports sessions, but in a very lightweight kind of way.  When the `:mksession {file}` (`:help :mksession`, abbreviation: `:mks`) command is issued, Vim will save certain settings.  You can safely try this out right now -- just type `:mksession ~/session`, then open the file and take a look inside.

The first line should be `let SessionLoad = 1`.  This causes the `SessionLoad` variable to be set when the session file is loaded, allowing Vim to track when a session file is loaded.  To load a session file, all you need to do is source it with the `:source` command (`:help :source`, abbreviation: `:so`).  I think it's cool that there's no specific "load session" command -- `:source` just reads Ex commands from a file.

Another thing worth learning about sessions is you can control what `:mksession` includes by editing the `'sessionoptions'` (`:help 'sessionoptions'`, abbreviation: `'ssop'`) variable.  Mine currently looks like this: `blank,buffers,curdir,folds,help,options,tabpages,winsize`.  You can view yours by typing `:set ssop?`.  The help page for this setting lists each supported option -- one that I haven't got set is `winpos` which records the position of the Vim window (I'm using console Vim).

There are a lot of popular plugins for enhancing Vim's session support.  One that I picked at random is [vim-session](https://github.com/xolox/vim-session) by Peter Odding, which can automatically save sessions and even saves NERD Tree windows.
