---
layout: post
title: "Why Atom Can't Replace Vim"
author: "Alex Young"
tags: 
- editors
---

[Why Atom Can't Replace Vim](https://medium.com/p/433852f4b4d1) by Mike Kozlowski discusses why we love Vim:

> Vi is fundamentally built on command composability. It favors small, general-purpose commands that can be combined with objects to compose larger commands. By contrast, Emacs and its philosophical descendants (including Sublime Text and Atom) use monolithic, special-purpose commands.

> And composability is about more than just power, it's also learnability and consistency. The command for copying text in Vim is `y`. Do you know how to copy to the end of the line/file/paragraph? Of course you do: It's `y$`, `yG`, and `y}` respectively. The command for increasing the indent is `>`, so you instantly know `>$`, `>G`, and `>}`. Convert to lowercase is `gu`, so... sure enough: `gu$`, `guG`, `gu}`.

This idea of composability relates to the grammar Vim uses for commands.  Once you understand the grammar, you unlock a lot of editing patterns that would otherwise seem inscrutable.  To get a feel for Vim's grammar, the legendary [Your problem with Vim is that you don't grok vi](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1220118) post on Stack Overflow is worth reading, and most of [Vimcasts](http://vimcasts.org/blog/2014/02/follow-my-leader/) as well:

> There's something beautiful about these rules, which define Vim's grammar for composing operations. Vim allows you to define custom operators and motions (as well as text objects). I love the fact that user-defined operators and motions plug right in to Vim's grammar, just as though we were extending our vocabulary with new verbs and nouns. Read my essay on [sharpening the saw](http://vimcasts.org/blog/2012/08/on-sharpening-the-saw/) for a few concrete examples.

